---
layout: post
title: to all the boys (i think) i’ve loved before
modified: 2019-08-15
categories: [reflections, hues]
---
We’re coming up on the 1-year anniversary of the breakout Netflix film, _To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before_. I have a lot of love for this movie, and even more for the original trilogy written by Jenny Han. On August 17, 2018, the internet met Lara Jean Song-Covey. A wide-eyed teenager who loved love, but was hesitant to open herself up to it. She writes letters to her lost loves, the boys who got away; then she locks up those feelings in a teal hat box and puts the emotional tumult to rest. Lara Jean thinks she’s in love with the boys of her past, these ghosts she’s sealed in A4 envelopes with hand-lettered addresses. She _is_ in love though — in love with the idea of being in love with them. It’s a little different when you put it that way.

It is the way you can convince yourself that you’re in love with something, someone before you really know what it means. They’re like false positives on your way to emotional discovery. Let’s talk about love, maybe write it a letter or two, and what it means to have a past love.

<!--more-->

I’m going to quote a book I read four summers ago, a book that defined the core of my teenage philosophy: _Paper Towns_ by John Green. The movie for this came out the summer of 2015, another summer of transition in my life, and while it was by no means a quality work of cinema, it was still deeply meaningful in that gaudy, melodramatic teenage way. The soundtrack was an upbeat indie bop, the story a great high school road trip waiting to unfold. Once you read in between the lines, you get a powerful vision of a girl the main character thinks he’s in love with. At the end of the day, that’s all she is: a vision.

> “What a treacherous thing to believe that a person is more than a person.” <br /> — on some earmarked page of paper towns

It’s dangerous, treacherous even, to love something we don’t know, isn’t it? Haven’t we learned better all these years, that if all the great novelists that came before us couldn’t warn us against it, why did we have to turn to young adult fiction to start seeing the truth? The truth is that it’s scary to love what we know.
If we love what we know, then we accept what we have. Acceptance is a step away from complacency, and maybe a few more steps away from stagnation. If we love what we know, we can never move forward. We’re stuck with it. Instead, we love what we don’t know, what we can’t have. At least that keeps it interesting. We fall in love with ideas, aloof and poetic concepts of how we think the world works; or we fall in love with people, a sketch on a piece of paper that ought to be just as beautiful in real life. Rarely, is it ever.

I think I’ve loved a lot of things in this lifetime. I think I love the things that I do, and study, and pay attention to. (Don’t you think maybe they are the same thing — love and attention?, they said in Lady Bird and I had agreed.) I’ve written my letters, sealed them inside boxes inside of my brain: they’re little compartments of my past that I don’t dare disturb. Slowly, I’m beginning to realize how little of it is true.

A simple example: I think I love winter. I love the way the frost clings to surfaces with an unyielding attachment, the way the cold works its way into your bones and won’t let out. Winter is bitter and unrelenting, and it has a sinister and unsuspecting way of creeping up on you. As I write in the high heat of the summer, it almost sounds stupid.

More things: I thought I loved who I was, where I was in the moment, what I wanted to do in the aftermath, who I surrounded myself with, why I made the choices I did, how I think about the people and places that I spend these paragraphs writing about. To invoke John Green again as he writes about the way teenagers fall in love, we do so “the way you fall asleep: slowly, and then all at once.” And yet all at once, we fall out of it just as easily when we wake up. So, are we awake yet?

Maybe this is why people write. To purge themselves of that emotion, commit it somewhere so it feels real in the fleeting moment it did. Maybe this is why I loved _To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before_ so much, too. It felt so pure and real and it’s nice to believe that there are shreds of it left for the rest of us. At the end of the day, we just love to be in love. It moves us: keeps us up at night and gets us up in the morning. It doesn’t matter who or what, we just want to indulge in the feeling and write our letters and seal them up without ever mailing them.

We’re still in love with it, whatever that means. To everything else I once thought I loved, I’m still figuring it out.