---
layout: post
title:  collections — no.007
published: true
slug: collections-007
date:  2021-05-03
categories:
  - collections



---

###### collections: a weekly reset



It's May 3rd. 

- **backtracks to the past**: listening to you talk about it
- **ready for the red carpet**: an awards season obsession with pretty people in pretty outfits

<br />

<h4 style="text-align:center">💌</h4>

<!--more-->

<br/>


### backtracks to the past

###### i get it, you have a podcast

The subtitle of this one is also called "No, I don't care that you have a new podcast." It's cool if you have one though; I support it and hope you find success and the audience you want. Having a podcast must make the things you say important, and so you pick up a mic and decide you must proselytize your infinite wisdom on the airwaves. 

This April 12th *New Yorker* [cartoon](https://www.newyorker.com/cartoons/issue-cartoons/cartoons-from-the-april-12-2021-issue) just gets it:

> *"I get it. You have a podcast."*

There is one emerging genre of podcast that is fascinating in the way it is delightful: former celebrities revisiting the properties that made them famous. This is in direct reference to the new *Welcome to the OC, bitches!* podcast, tailor-made to walk down early-2000s memory lane with Rachel Bilson and Melinda Clarke reliving the glorious, sun-soaked days of life in Orange County. Recreating the magic of a series through memories, nearly eighteen years removed. In that time, kids have become full-teenagers and lived their own melodramatic, soap-operatic lives. 



### ready for the red carpet

###### an awards season obsession with pretty people in pretty outfits

Every Awards Season™  comes with the hallmark red carpet debuts of expensive outfits worn by the best and brightest of Hollywood. Lush fabrics, delicate trimmings, glittering jewelry adorned on the rich and famous strutting down the cadmium red aisle. 

We have a pathological obsession with these people and what they are wearing. Or at least I do, for a few hours every year when the season rolls around and the pre-show media outlets decree that the only thing more important than the art of what people are watching is the art that the people are wearing. 

It doesn't matter, but it does. Pretty people and their pretty possessions, posing for the paparazzi. I was watching *The Oscars* last weekend, and when I say I was watching, I mean I was refreshing Twitter for the winners and commentary from critics. It was a strange night, for many reasons, and the discourse is largely over now. When the discourse was alive, however, we were all talking about how rich and glamorous people looked because that was the most important thing in that very moment.



## this past week

- **watched**: mare of easttown
- **read**: [in praise of the gods](https://simonsarris.substack.com/p/in-praise-of-the-gods)
- **listened**: olivia rodrigo