---
layout: post
title:  collections — no.008
published: false
slug: collections-008
date:  2021-08-21
categories:
  - collections



---

###### collections: a seasonal reset

It appears that a weekly newsletter has now turned seasonal. An unfortunate, but not an irreversible problem. Every so often, I'll have a stray, aberrant thought that I'll jot into my drafts and never release into the world. At some point, it may be useful to stop thinking about those as aberrations and give them the space to exist as fully-formed ideas. As they say, publishing something is better than nothing; no use in waiting for me to publish the third entry.



- **the forgotten half of the holland tunnel**: jack antonoff & co makes music for pop princesses and the underdogs of the jersey suburbs
- **your emotional baggage can be picked up at the next carousel:** emotional baggage, flight risk, and other air travel metaphors for thought

<br/>

<h4 style="text-align:center">💌</h4>

<!--more-->

<br/>

### the forgotten half of the holland tunnel

######  jack antonoff & co makes music for pop princess and the underdogs of the jersey suburbs

Disclaimer, I've been to Jersey maybe twice voluntarily. 

With the release of Lorde's new album, *Solar Power*, there's a strange media phenomenon where her success and musicality is centered on the producer: on Jack Antonoff, the venerated pop producer that has made music with some of the biggest stars in the industry over the past few years. Gone are the days of Jack playing second fiddle to the lead of fun. (long live the fleeting, bright star that was *the* breakdout indie darling of a decade past), and also the days where he was inextricably coupled with Lena Dunham (a whirlwind romance forever preserved in the liner notes of Taylor's "You are in Love"). He is a producer with a reputation and multiple Grammys that precede him; he is the first call for so many of the pop powerhouses by the name of Taylor, Lorde, Lana, and so many more. 

I'm not here to talk about Jack's collaborations and his role as a producer. I'm here to talk about him as an artist as the frontman of Bleachers. I'm here to talk about how I fell deep in the rabbithole of his sonic universe because his music was texturally recreating these feelings of youth and yearning that feel all too familiar in an internal world. And actually, I'm here to talk about this singular musical performance of Jack Antonoff with his acoustic guitar, perched atop a wooden stool, and straddling the green line of the tunnel that separates the York from Jersey. 

*Take the sadness out of Saturday night*, [Jack sings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kZYMkr6-_0k), his body positioned more in the half that is New Jersey than it is New York. Without exhaustively recapitulating the Bleachers discography, it sounds like this: it sounds like sadly having the time of your life; wondering what happened at the party you were never invited to; nodding when someone asks why you're crying and you insist you're the happiest you've ever been; walking by the empty swings of a park you've been to since a child yet feeling overgrown.

It's the soundtrack of that undescribable—*you are the main character of your life*—feeling buried beneath snare drums and synthesizer. 

His music gets that feeling. He gets that sense of being young and wanting everything, but having nothing: the blind cavernous, courage of desire matched with the disappointing grace of mundanity. The DNA of it feels inherently Jersian: an inferiority complex built on the outskirts of the big, glamourous New York City. The sort of fully-realized person you always imagined yourself to be, yet always coming up short. There is this immense sadness to being on the outside looking at the shiny and big apple of a city just one underground car ride over. Knowing you could be bold and great too (that the capacity has always been there; and the green line is arbitration), but you humble yourself and exclaim reminders that you love where you came from: a guitar and wooden stool, tunnel and traffic be damned. 

### your emotional baggage can be picked up at the next carousel

###### emotional baggage, flight risk, and other air travel metaphors for thought

- your emotional baggage can be picked up at the next carousel ([secrets from a girl (who's seen it all)](https://open.spotify.com/track/7xgTVcQqY25wPns8HYxPXc?si=a676e31161dd4d67))
- i was a flight risk with a fear of falling ([mine](https://open.spotify.com/track/0dBW6ZsW8skfvoRfgeerBF?si=17b8065f3cd64a50))
- gonna take her for a ride on a big jet plane ([big jet plane](https://open.spotify.com/track/5Z1U0knfYnsfvZycgDeOiC?si=026187392ddd4251))
- you can't bribe the door on your way to the sky ([sign of the times](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qN4ooNx77u0))
- her boxes are sealed with packing tape and her suitcase is three pounds overweight. *emotional baggage*, she measures in her head, *weighs so much more*. ([you weren't mine to lose](https://reading.supply/@kelly/you-werent-mine-to-lose-wpEd03))

Eventually, I'll write something real about this song.

It's a sonic memory embedded in this web of me trying to parse how my *girl*hood processed into *teenage*hood and then phased into the young *woman*hood that faces me today, the sum of all these years intertwined and collapsed. My own existential vertigo.



## these past months

- **watched**: gossip girl (hbo max)
- **read**: [bobos in ikea](https://blgtylr.substack.com/p/bobos-in-ikea)
  - "what powers such a novel is interior weather. pith. wry observation. an accurate recreation of psychological effects under the duress capital."
- **listened**: *[solar power](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/37i9dQZF1DX1D2beE6xFE6?si=3dbc335c9601404a)* by lorde
