---
layout: post
title:  collections — no. 002
published: false
slug: collections-002
date:  2021-02-20
categories:
  - collections


---

###### collections: a weekly reset



It's February 21st.

- **martin scorsese hates content**: one of the godfathers of modern cinema has strong words about what the algorithm did to content
- **half-baked, inchoate thoughts**: why do we always preemptively disclaim our personal opinions by saying they're not fully formed? (i do it too)
- 

<br />

<h4 style="text-align:center">💌</h4>

<!--more-->

<br/>

### martin scorsese hates content

###### one of the godfathers of modern cinema has strong words about what the algorithm did to content

The twitter-sphere was in an uproar because one of the most renowned and decorated filmmakers of our time was criticizing the art of the Netflix binge and the cinematic universe of comic books. Content is a dirty word, likened to the [systemic devaluation and reduction of the art of cinema](https://harpers.org/archive/2021/03/il-maestro-federico-fellini-martin-scorsese/). 

> “Content” became a business term for all moving images: a David Lean movie, a cat video, a Super Bowl commercial, a superhero sequel, a series episode. It was linked, of course, not to the theatrical experience but to home viewing, on the streaming platforms that have come to overtake the moviegoing experience, just as Amazon overtook physical stores.

I love content. If I could say content consumption (and then thinking about it) was a hobby, I would turn it into a self-proclaimed profession. I love consuming content, and I am hoping to do it consciously by thinking out loud and morphing those thoughts into these words. 

There flaws are numerous; I'll name a few. First is the historically exclusionary vantage point from which he is writing. The title of tastemaker is often reserved for the select few who manifest the wealth and cultural capital to decide what constitutes culture (and who gets to make more of it). Curators are a mere cultivation of the elite, in granting a handful with the influence to make opinionated decisions about what the rest of us are allowed to like and spend our money on. The concentration of the custodianship on those with existing connections and clout. They were born with the high ground of high culture. 

If I had a hill to die on, it would be the valley between high culture and low culture.  The auteurs want us to be patrons, not consumers. Content is commodification, and their art is anything but. 

What a shame it would be to make good art accessible; shame on those who enjoy anything else. 