---
layout: post
title: "collections — no. 014"
published: false
slug: collections-014
date:  2022-10-12
categories:
  - collections
---


- **twenty fourteen**: i built myself this year
- **hello girl**: w 
- **screaming crying throwing up**: you had to have been there

<br />

<h4 style="text-align:center">💌</h4>

<!--more-->

<br />

## good writing
###### clean girl, material girl, *that* girl 
In a half-delirious spell, I was reading earlier this weekend and read the first good thing I've read in a long while. Good writing is this, good writing is that—but writing that 

It's the way one of my favorite online writers described *Dry the River*, a band moulded in the image of *The National* in the English highlands (here, they play ["bible belt"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xbsMVyLQ35I&t=194s) on a boat in the canals of Amsterdam)—like loving a place of worship when you walk inside even if you don’t believe in any type of god. 

Stare up at the firmament, skies and souls suddenly made legible. 


## screaming crying throwing up
###### you had to have been there
This is one of those things where you had to have been there to know what it really means. If you were a preteen girl once, you get pretty close. 

I'm convinced time is a flat circle. There are moments in the cultural consciousness that flicker awake, stirred from the reverie of a long nap. Time flattened when Dylan O'Brien starred in Taylor Swift's *All Too Well* short-film last autumn. It compacted when *Promising Young Woman* thought to cast Adam Brody and Chris Lowell and Max Greenfield as the everyday men of nightmares. It razed down to nothing when the internet periphery found itself in the throes of obsession with Matt Smith again (and to think, I'd rolled my eyes when they first announced prequel casting). Before, I would have called it weaponized casting. But it is simply nostalgia broken into the bone of being. We're all the same, we've always loved the same things; we may never change.


  

## hello girl
###### clean girl, material girl, *that* girl 





## this month

- **watching**: if i disappear for the next month or so, it's because i gave into the collective impulses of my digital feeds and started watching *house of the dragon*. and the lack of self-preservation that's caught up to me; and it'll hurt like hell. 
- **read**: *book lovers* by emily henry
	- such a smart book. knows the tropes of a small town romance and plays those cards so well. 
- **listened**: lorde, mitski, bleachers, lucy dacus. all in one saturday.