---
layout: post
title: "past-lives: the year twenty twenty-two"
published: true
slug: 2022-pastlife
date: 2022-12-31
categories:
  - a year in review
  - if they have past-lives
---

I write this nearly eleven months after my last recapitulation, the life I lived last year. 

<br />

### a year in review

In 2022, I watched thirty-one seasons of tv and twenty-four films; read approximately twelve bo

<!--more-->

<br />

## what i read

Rather than rehash how I've failed my Goodreads reading challenge once again, I've sifted through my favorite reads from my Instapaper archive. To know what someone reads is to know how they think; and to know what resonates is to know who they'll become as a result.

read: [lighthouse](https://lighthouse.kellyluo.me/) 

<br />

## what i wrote

It would not be a year at an end and another year at the start if I did not lament how little writing I did compared to the quantity of writing I'd sought out to do. The inconsistency looms large, as always (so many words I'm trying to get out; I wish they'd pour out of me). 

Here are the things I wrote that I'm rather fond of: [not the marriage plot](https://blog.kellyluo.me/2022-09/not-the-marriage-plot) (long live the romance of it all); [words of worship](https://blog.kellyluo.me/2022-10/collections-014) (from no. 014, the electric shockwave of finding good writing), [ripe avocado, runny yolk, french batard](https://blog.kellyluo.me/2022-11/still-life-avocado-toast) (avocado toast, a still-life)

<br />

## what i did

The true highlights of the past year are documented through digital photos or sharp anecdotes: there's a lot I did (and didn't do)—in life, at home, or for work. This, however, is a shrine to all the little things I did for myself that still *matter*, but didn't make it to the front page.

I received a boarding pass for my first flight in two years (seat 15C), found a gift card that had been missing since late 2018, and filed my taxes through the grit of self-determination and free tax software. I assembled furniture with my bare hands and a tiny allen wrench, cleaned and tidied as a practice of care rather than an oppression of chore, and spent ridiculous sums of money on storage bins to contain the sprawl of my transposed and newly-acquired possessions. I also started writing ***collections*** and valiantly continue my attempts to collect myself to write more, set-up my Instapaper and e-mail newsletter-sorting system that feels like the better part of my brain if I actually took the quiet time to read everything I saved-for-later, and collaged my reading highlights into word-panes of the [***lighthouse***](https://lighthouse.kellyluo.me/).

<br />

—inspired by this very good [newsletter about favorite things](https://haleynahman.substack.com/p/79-my-favorite-things).

<br />

**what i disposed:** the antonym of acquired ought to be disposed. in fact, I acquired new dislikes as well (and may have been unsuccessful in the dispossession); however, to dwell on dislikes is to poison the marrow of daily existence. the short-list for this would be putrid personality traits, steeply-sloped hills spanning multiple city blocks, abandonment as an antagonist, the new hbomax gossip girl reboot, organic tree-lighting ceremonies, and inertia. that last one, is the one that cannot be moved.

<br />

## what i resolve

It would be unkind to make resolutions for the new year, as I've unsuccessfully done for so many years in the past. I do, however, have a few themes I'm resolved to continue exploring in the third year of this new decade:


<br />

<br />

### and onwards to the next

Somehow I think writing this over a span of two months and a long afternoon was an unconsciously proactive attempt at evading nostalgia before it strikes; and writing this year in review was certainly less tumultuous than writing the one from the year before last. But I sense there's an unrealized mechanism of self-preservation at play here: if I don't make the conscious effort to concretize the hills and valleys of the last year, the sandstorm will blow through and flatten my memory into soft blurs of a pandemic purgatory. Maybe this will be how I prove to my future self that the current of change carried me through even as time stood still. It's so easy to forget so much, and these annualized diaristic tendencies keep the topography alive and wild. Over the next year, I'll capture everything else: what I thought, acquired, valued, and foresaw.

