---
layout: post
title: "crucible"
published: true
slug: crucible
date: 2023-07-28
categories:
  - interregnums
---


we are forged in a crucible. iron-hot, stinging steel. molten personhood: scraps of dreams and self-belief and ambition. left to stew over an unwatched flame, lit like a vigil. cradled in a stock of loathing and agitation. becomes a shimmery, silvery sludge; occasionally peer in to stare back at a misaligned reflection. manufactured melt. a precondition for destroying knowns, a sublimation of sorts; structures turned to vapor, told to embrace the fluidity. but later transmutes into unrecognizable, unfounded forms. couldn't hold onto it with two hands, keeps slipping away. left in critical condition.

sometimes the knife is so sharp i don't even notice it cutting in. slices through, serrated slashes; look closer, that's where the viscera and innards spill out. that's what guts are made of. not inside, not holding a person together. not where it needs to be. don't have the guts for any of this. can hardly stomach it. chewed-through straws and shredded cuticles. bloodless lacerations beneath a mass of scar tissue. never healed properly. won't let it, will just keep cutting in the same places. wonder: has anyone ever been so revolted by what's inside of themselves that it simply ejects? all that ugly. 

if i am allowed to ask—i would like to know where all my constitutions have gone. imagine i am to be raised up in my own self-image (but razed down, to brittle bone). yet the days clumsily spin forward, regrettable corrosions in a decay function. lost to a lonely rot. can no longer see myself clearly; won't come into focus. cloudy cataract. i keep trying, though.

<!--more-->

<br /> 

###### hi
been waking up with terrifying anxiety (the kind that churns through you; reaches into every dark corner and demands attention. a wildfire lick.) given the gift of high agency. of having choices and knowing that you are responsible for every choice and there are no correct choices. i've been saving writing on "crucible" for a while now because it's one of those beautiful words that says everything in very little. but i woke up this difficult morning and thought about the four crumbling walls of my life right now as my crucible. unmaking me before i might believe i can be made again.