---
layout: post
title: ran you through with red
published: true
slug: red-book-5
date: 2024-10-18
categories:
  - if they have past-lives
  - from the archives
---

there is an esteemed, crimson-stained tradition submitting to the **red book**. every five years past commencement

<br />

<h4 style="text-align:center"></h4>
<br />

All I do is remix memory; the seasons have always been my time-keeper. 

2021 路 The long, limbic hibernation ended. Left home, settled into a second home near the park. The fog rolled in. Rearranged cheap furniture, put up postcards on a white wall. Ordered dinner (indoors, finally) with different people, different nights. The hills came alive. Stood solitary on an ocean cliffside, and (*spoiler*) this moment is retold as an origin story. 

2022 路 Wrote poetry, on a Tuesday. Showed up at font doors with pillowy loaves of focaccia. Woke up for a five a.m. promenade, dug my high heels into dirt, took photos for the family photo album. Wondered if this is how it would have felt when this still meant everything. Dont know when I stopped searching for closure, two years late. 

Red sandstone; sargassum, cenotes, ten cities; observation car crosswords.

I'd loved where I'd worked; then one night, it wasn't where I worked anymore. Part of me had grown up therein the post-graduate ache for a new institution to servethen outgrown overnight. Another psychic wound next to this one. 

2023 路 Bought a one-way trans-pacific flight. Asiatic dispatches: ate selfishly, prayed little, loved fully.

A year as a crucible. I was so eager to make myself anew, but had never sculped without a reference image. I had been spilled out from a jar, tipped over and poured out, and heaved myself in half-hearted attempts at new forms. A formlessness that made me question if I only ever knew how to take the shape of my containers.

2024 路 


Letting go allows you to grow, I've said aloud enough times that the bones of me believe it too. 

alamo square, san francisco, 10pm.