---
layout: post
title: "past-lives: the year twenty twenty-three"
published: false
slug: 2023-pastlife
date: 2024-06-16
categories:
  - a year in review
  - if they have past-lives
---

For the longest time, I couldn't bring myself to write about 2023. I had committed an image of last year's self, the substrate of eternal potential blown away on a formless flatland. The theory was, I would shape myself freely and vividly—kinetic. Create forms of myself where I never had the time or audacity or means of expression. Yet all those grains of myself kept slipping through my hands. Coarse, uncompacted grains. The land was elusive, untouchable. It didn't know what it wanted; but it couldn't be remade.

Last year is an aftermath story; and if I wanted to be generous with myself, I would recount it as a growth story under a fonder light. 

<br />

### a year in review

In 2023, 


<!--more-->

<br />


## when was shipwrecked

All those moments. l


## when was shipwrecked

I didn't know what to do myself. During the transition of the winter prior, my self-reflection proved prophetic: "I had been spilled out from a jar, tipped over and poured out, and have heaved myself in half-hearted attempts at new forms." Poured out, heaving


<br /> 
<br />
<br />

dated july 2023. 

find me: marooned. splintered against the crag.

so badly wanted the last time to be a long time ago. was a completely different person then, attention-starved, greedy. emotional, nearly anorexic.

everything is a haunting. that cracked feeling. chapped lips and split elbows. overexposure.

lost spoils of a warchest. looted open, pillaged bare. picked-at, picked-over, picked-prometheus. feelings that regrow in the same old places.

<br />
<br />
<br />

